Deploying PAWS: Field Optimization of the Protection Assistant forWildlife Security

(a) What are the motivations for this work? (5 pts)
	The people problem:
		There is an urgent need to protect wildlife from poaching. Indeed, poaching can lead to extinction of species and destruction of ecosystems. For example, poaching is considered a major driver (Chapron et al. 2008) of why tigers are now found in less than 7% of their historical range (Sanderson et al. 2006), with three out of nine tiger subspecies already extinct (IUCN 2015).
	The technical problem:
		We outline key technical advances that lead to PAWS’s regular deployment:
		(i) incorporating complex topographic features, e.g., ridge lines, in generating patrol routes;
		(ii) handling uncertainties in species distribution (game theoretic payoffs);
		(iii) ensuring scalability for patrolling large-scale conservation areas with fine-grained guidance; and
		(iv) handling complex patrol scheduling constraints.


(b) What is the proposed solution? (5 pts)
	Limitations of the previous solution:
		First, a major limitation, the severity of which was completely unanticipated, was that PAWS-Initial ignored topographic information.  Second, PAWS-Initial assumed animal density and relevant problem features at different locations to be known. Third, PAWS-Initial could not scale to provide detailed patrol routes in large conservation areas.
	Idea of the new solution, why it is better than the previous solution and how the solution is achieved:
		First, we incorporate elevation information and land features and use a novel hierarchical modelling approach to build a virtual “street map” of the conservation area. This virtual “street map” helps scale up while providing fine grained guidance, and is an innovation that would be useful in many other domains requiring patrolling of large areas. Essentially, the street map connects the whole conservation area through easy-to-follow route segments such as ridge line, streams and river banks. The rationale for this comes from the fact that animals, poachers, and patrollers all use these features while moving. To address the second and third limitations, we build on the street map concept with a novel algorithm that uniquely synthesizes two threads of prior work in the security games literature; specifically, the new PAWS algorithm handles payoff uncertainty using the concept of minimax regret (Nguyen et al. 2015), while simultaneously ensuring scalability – using our street maps – via the cutting plane framework (Yang et al. 2013). To address the final limitation, we incorporate in PAWS’s algorithm the ability to address constraints such as patrol time limit and starting and ending at the base camp. In the final part of the paper, we provide detailed information about the regular deployment of PAWS.


(c) What is the evaluation of the proposed solution? (5 pts)
	PAWS patrols are now regularly deployed at a conservation area in Malaysia. The patrol planner will make plans based on the strategy generated by PAWS. PAWS patrols are effective in finding human activity signs and animal signs. Finding these signs is aligned with the goal of PAWS – combat poaching to save animals – and thus is a proof for the effectiveness of PAWS. Also, the patrol planners mentioned that the top routes in PAWS solution come close to an actual planner’s routes, which shows PAWS can suggest feasible routes and potentially reduce the burden of planning effort. The cumulative human planners’ effort saved by using PAWS will be a considerable amount. In addition, patrollers commented that PAWS is able to guide them towards poaching hotspots. The fact that they found multiple human signs along the explorative PAWS patrol routes makes them believe that PAWS is good at finding good ridge lines that are taken by animals and humans. Patrollers and patrol planners also agree that PAWS generates detailed suggested routes which can guide the actual patrol. Patrollers commented that the suggested routes are easier to follow compared with the routes from the first trial by PAWS-Initial.


(d) What are the contributions? (5 pts)
	PAWS patrols are now regularly deployed at a conservation area in Malaysia. Helping the patrollers in many ways (ex. easier to find route) to protect from assistant for wildlife security.
	

(e) What are future directions for this research? (5 pts)
	Future direction for development:
		Minimizing the need for extra equipment/effort would further ease PAWS future deployment, i.e., patrollers would prefer having a single handheld device for collecting patrol data and displaying suggested patrol routes. If PAWS routes could be embedded in the software that is already in use for collecting data in many conservation areas, e.g., SMART, it would reduce the effort required of planners.
		Also, we should taking steps to expand PAWS to its other sites.
